hello and welcome to 2021
congratulations on passing 2020. in this
video we're going to talk about how you
can pass your
toefl test in 2021
[Applause]
okay so when thinking about passing your
toefl test you really have
three fundamental questions that you
need to ask yourself
the first one is when will you take your
toefl test are you going to take it next
week or next month or in six months
etc second question is what
score do you need so say it's for
university entrance you'll need a
particular score you'll need to find
that out
and the third question which is a little
bit more difficult to answer
is what's your current score now or if
you were to
estimate which is probably not a good
idea what's your current score because
if you're below the score you need then
and you have enough time for preparation
then that's a good thing but if you're
running out of time etc you need to be a
bit careful so
in this video we're going to go through
each of the different
sections of the test i'm going to give
you a couple of tips okay
okay before we start there is a
downloadable goals pdf which is for
free so make sure you download that and
fill out your goal planner for 2021
okay let's start by looking at the
reading section
reading tip number one grow your
vocabulary okay so
this is kind of challenging but if you
have a small vocabulary you're going to
need to build it out
okay and toefl uses academic vocabulary
so
some of the words are going to be pretty
sophisticated so how do you grow
your vocabulary well you're going to
have to read
widely and you're going to have to make
a habit of reading across
different disciplines as well so for
example if you think about all the
academic disciplines there's like
i don't know earth sciences and
technology and health and education etc
so you want to try and do a little bit
of reading across those disciplines to
start to build that vocabulary
fundamentally though the vocabulary will
just be
general english vocabulary with a few
academic words thrown on top
so those fundamental words are the high
frequency word lists
which you can get from e2language.com
you know like common verbs common nouns
etc
you need to have a really good breadth
of vocabulary there
reading tip number two learn the
different toefl question types
okay so the good thing about toefl
reading is that the majority of the
questions are the multiple choice
format which is cool however
they differ in their function they
differ
in what you have to read for take a look
at this list here
so you might get a multiple choice
question asking you about reference that
is what the pronoun means or
factual information is it true negative
factual information which of these is
false inference what does the author
mean
by this or rhetorical purpose why did
the author say this
so you want to become familiar with all
of these toefl
question types because it's going to
help you on test day when you see that
question you'll know
aha it's asking me to read for something
it's a reading function cool
okay so let's think about setting some
goals for our
reading remember to download the free
goals pdf from the description below
so you might want to set daily goals of
reading say a science daily article
every day
these are great because they're divided
up into categories
right they're divided into those
academic themes of
earth sciences and health and education
etc so you can read
broadly across different topics
and what you might want to do to make
sure you understand
the thing that you're reading is make a
little summary of the paragraph
and you might want to write down some
new words and start to build out your
vocabulary like this
on a weekly basis you want to just
complete practice questions from
e2language.com
and you can attend our live classes as
well
okay so we've talked about reading now
let's turn our attention to the
listening section and think about things
that we can do to help
increase our listening scores listening
tip number one
get to know the question types just like
you did in reading
so as i just mentioned before there are
various listening question types as well
and you want to become familiar with
them they are
listening for gist and content that is
the overall meaning
listening for gist and purpose like
why did she say that
listening for a particular detail
listening for a
function listening for an attitude or an
opinion
how does she feel about that listening
for an inference what does she mean by
this
listening for organization like how does
it
how is it structured and listening to
connect
content if you go to e2language.com and
sign up you'll get the
methods lessons and what the methods
lessons are
special video lessons that take you
through all of the different question
types
we teach you about them in detail and
then we teach you how to
answer the questions according to that
information so they're very helpful
listening tip number two improve your
note
taking so in toefl listening you're
going to listen to something
and you won't see the question until
after the recording has
finished so while you're listening to
that lecture or that interview or
whatever it is
you need to take notes so when you do
see the questions
you can answer them correctly so this
means you're going to have to
improve your note taking if you're not
already a good note taker okay
one of the ways that you can do this is
just listen to lectures and actually
just write
notes as you're going along and what you
need to be able to do
is emphasize the listening aspect that
is you want to
listen like 99 and just use
one percent to take notes and those
notes will be key words
key phrases key nouns key verbs and
possibly key adjectives
this is a good skill to learn okay so
let's think about some goals
to improve our listening scores on a
daily basis you want to start listening
to
podcasts that are in english
you should also do practice activities
on e2
on a weekly basis you want to listen to
a podcast and read the transcript
or if you can find a website like
ted.com where you can actually
read along while the speaker is speaking
that's extremely helpful
so if you think about listening broadly
like
what is listening it's very strange you
can listen for something like you have
hearing which is fine you don't need to
do anything about that and then you have
listening you're listening for something
in order to
comprehend or understand spoken english
you need to understand
what spoken english is and how it works
because it
is quite different from written english
if you're just used to reading
english texts when you compare what's
written with what's spoken they're
actually quite different because there's
all these different
elements of spoken english like
connected speech and
intonation and pausing etc so try to
become familiar with
spoken english elements as well
cool if you're enjoying this video
remember to hit the subscribe button so
you can be the first to get our
toefl youtube content but do remember
that we only put
some of the videos here on youtube all
of them are
over on e2language.com okay
let's talk about writing writing tip
number one
learn the e2 language writing structures
okay so toefl has two main
tasks for writing the integrated writing
and the independent writing
and for both of these you want to learn
structures
structures are great they're not
templates you're not memorizing like a
partially written
essay or something like that what you're
memorizing
is the bare bones or a skeleton in which
you can use
and go into your test and write
something and be flexible
to cover the criteria so in the
integrated writing task for example
where you'll be
reading something that'll have a few
points then you'll be listening to
something that'll have a few
counterpoints you then need a structure
in order to
write up your contrastive summary this
is all available on e2 language
it's the same thing with the independent
writing which is practically an
essay you want to know how to structure
up your introductory paragraph your body
paragraphs and your conclusion
so these structures at the paragraph
level and at the
essay level are really important
writing tip number two improve your
grammar
okay this is a bit of an ask but if your
is not quite right if it's a little bit
inaccurate if your verb tenses are a
little bit funky and perhaps you forget
to put the
s on the plural nouns
then you're gonna have to start tidying
that stuff up
it's pretty tricky to learn grammar i
personally think you probably need some
explicit grammar lessons and if you need
that you can check out
e2school.com there is a free grammar
course there
and it will help you to understand all
of the complexities of english grammar
but also when you're reading just start
paying attention to the verb tenses into
why is that noun a plural noun and why
is this now not a plural noun
for example okay let's set some writing
goals so on a daily basis you might want
to study grammar review
on e2school.com which is free
and also just pay attention to grammar
on a weekly basis you might want to
attend or watch our e2 language live
classes okay so we just looked at
writing now let's look at
speaking okay so speaking tip number one
understand what speaking is
okay so i briefly mentioned this before
because understanding what speaking
is or what it's made of will help you
with your listening skills which is cool
but you also want to just become a
better speaker
okay so how do you do that and what is
speaking
well speaking consists of the sounds
that you make
and these could be the consonants like
for example you need to find out which
consonant sounds you struggle with
because of your first language maybe
your first language
doesn't have these sounds then you've
got the vowel sounds like
what for example
same thing which of these vowel sounds
are not in your first language
and as such you struggle with them
you've got consonant clusters
when you've got more than one consonant
that comes together like cr
or pro or slip for example
you might want to practice saying words
uh
that have a particular consonant cluster
that you struggle with
but aside from the sounds of the
language which is important extremely
important
you also need to think about the
different aspects of spoken english
like connected speech that is how you
connect words together when you're
speaking or how native english speakers
do that
or pausing or intonation how things rise
and
fall according to the meaning that
you're conveying
so there's all these different aspects
of spoken english which are critical
what we'll do is we're going to make a
link to the videos below to our speaking
science videos where we actually go
through some of these ingredients of
good spoken english
speaking tip number two use the e2
language structures
so just like writing you know how you
have a structure for an
essay or your integrated writing for
example you also need
structures for the speaking test as well
and you want to become familiar with
these structures
well before test day so as you probably
know toefl has various speaking
tasks including the personal choice
speaking task
which is independent you're not reading
or listening to something before it
then you have three integrated speaking
tasks where you summarize an
announcement or an opinion
summarize a reading and lecture and
summarize a lecture
so for each of these you want to bring
with you into the exam a sort of idea of
how you're going to structure up each of
those tasks
all of that is available in the methods
lessons on e2language.com
so let's set some speaking goals on a
daily basis
i think a really good practice is to
read aloud
just read aloud in bed or in the morning
it's up to you
just get the mouth moving don't make it
just purely
mental make it physical as well
also you might want to check out
speakinglab on e2school.com which is our
pronunciation course
as a weekly exercise you should join our
live speaking classes
cool so we've just gone through a number
of different tips and hopefully you've
written down some goals so you can
project out and work
forward towards your goal so actually
let me know what your goal is into the
comments below
please pop in when your test date is or
when you expect to take your test
what score you need and what score do
you think you are now or where is your
weak area it's good to become conscious
of that
anyway thanks for watching my name is
jay hopefully i'll see you soon
you